Welcome back.
And in this lesson we're going to update some over age to m-L.
So let's add some classes.
So we're going to create a bunch of divs and let's use output as a class and then just put a quick message
test me one.
So we've got some content in there.
And what I wanted to do is I want to duplicate this a bunch of times so that we have a bunch of input
classes so that we can actually make a selection.
And then next we want to loop through all of the classes and take from what we learned previously where
we can attach click and that's how we can attach different click events to multiple elements.
So let's update that content.
And they're all going to have the class of output.
So let's loop through their 9 and 10.
So we know that we've got 10 elements what the class of output.
So next let's grab that within our H.E. M-L
So let's create a variable here and we're going to call it L.
So I call it L class and from here we're going to do document and get element.
So instead of element by ID because we're selecting multiple ones we want to select them by class so
get elements by class name
by class name so get elements by class name and then we need to select the class that we're looking
for.
So the classes output.
So let's go back out and we're going to refresh our page.
So now if I do elth class we can see that we've got access to all of those elements.
So the next step is as we saw earlier to actually loop through them and click events to them so we can
do that and we're going to create our loop.
So we're going to loop through all of the elements we're going to use X as our default variable and
loop through while X is less then.
And we're going to make use of the length.
So we know that we can get the length of the class.
And now let's just increment X by 1 so that our loop is changing.
And we're updating.
So now we know that we've got access to all of those elements and now we can do something with those
elements.
So previously we saw how we can grab that element information.
So I'm going to call it all within this variable within this loop and
so we're going to create it as an object and as we loop through we've got access to e-mail and basically
that represents that element of an object.
So we also saw earlier that we could do the click events so we could do on click and we could attach
a function to that on click.
And then actually have something happen when that element gets clicked.
So what I want to do now is I want you to pause the video and I want you to output within message that
text of any one of these output elements.
So when the user comes in and clicks on it I want this message to change with whatever the text is of
the element that they clicked.
So go ahead pause the video and use what we learned in the previous lessons and apply this within this
code and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So if you had an opportunity to try that out and I'm just going to put in a placeholder here for message
so that my role is don't actually adjust when I make the clicks.
So I know that we attach these click functions.
And right now we don't actually have anything happening within those quick functions.
So the next thing that we want to do is we want to output that message.
So you see in various ways how we can do this and I going to put this document I use get element by
id and I'm going to grab message so that all I need to do is now I can do message and do it for age
to melt to that message.
So we know that E-L represents the particular element.
So if we do well and we do enter h to amental Let's see if that works.
So go back out refreshed and now when I click it we see that we're actually updating the message as
what those clicked values.
So we notice that all we get is that last element input so we don't actually see solutes what's going
on here when we're clicking it.
So let me let me plug it into the console.
So basically when we click it we're also going to add in another event and we're going to output that
in our age to melt so that we can better better understanding of what's going wrong and why we're not
able to click events.
So we see that we always get that test the test.
So no matter which one we click we end up with the same message.
So let's also add that console log.
And this is you can do some debugging using console log.
It becomes a very very useful when you're actually expecting a different result within your each to
Mel than what's actually happening.
So what's going on here is that when we're clicking at and we see that we're looping through it we're
able to get all of these elements.
But at the end of the day we're only getting this one click event being registered.
So this is fine if you're only looking to grab that one click event.
But if you want to register them as separate elements then you need to do something as well.
You need to update it a little bit.
So we saw earlier that when we clicked on the event we've got them at Target.
So let's see what happens.
Now if I do event target in h t m l
h t m l.
So let's go back and refresh it.
And now when I click it we see that we're actually getting those right values coming down there.
So that was what was happening.
And this is what you got to remember when you're setting these click events.
So if we're not actually being specific to that class.
So what was actually happening is that we were looping through this variable and we were always re-attaching
e l n r h t M-L to it.
So we weren't identifying that particular element at the time it was clicked.
We were using the value of e l and we know that when we loop through it the last value of E-L was test
me 10.
So that's what was happening there.
So it was as much that we weren't being able to separate these click events but we weren't able to actually
pick up the message that we wanted to make use of because E-L inner h to M-L had been changed to test
message 10.
So this is where we've got all of those connections to the variables and values within Javascript.
So you've got to be really careful when you're trying to grab this.
So another thing that we could do is we don't have to use that message.
We could have used the value of x and dump something like this.
And if we do X clicked let's refresh it.
And now when we click them we're actually getting that same thing where we're doing X clicked 10.
So we do need to use that target in order to distinguish the different elements at the time the click
event was being fired off.
So they're all being seen as not one click event.
And in order to distinguish We need to be more specific and grab that information on the event.
At the time.
So what I want you to do now is add another message area.
So we're going to have message one and message to and make an update to that ID.
And I want you to create a class highlight So we'll have a few that are called highlight and what I
want to happen when you click the ones that have a class of highlight I want to add another listener
there so that these ones are going to have something else that happens.
So loop through the ones that have the class highlight and add another event listener that says you
clicked one with Highlight and output that in message 2.
So go ahead and try that.
And I'm going to show you how that works coming up.
So if you get an opportunity to try that.
Did it work.
What did you only get one of the messages to only get one of the click events or were you able to pass
message one and message to when you clicked the ones that are highlighted.
So if you clicked number seven and it was highlighted did you get message 1 and message to say are able
to click events.
So let's see what happens.
So let's go into our H-2 Mel and we're going to loop through all the different elements.
And next we need to grab.
So we need to do some duplicating of some of the code that we have here.
So we need to do.
So this one was called message one and message once it's grabbing the element with message 1 and also
let's grab that class name so we use class name as well.
So we'll call it high class and this one is going to grab the ones with the class name highlight and
let's loop through all the elements that have high class all the length we're going to grab that element
value they're in high class
and actually let's get rid of that one and we'll just do it with this type of format because we don't
actually need to always register that within the variable So let's go back and go back so we can clean
that up a little bit.
So now when we click high class and we don't need to put that value any more we can get rid of it within
that console as well as of outputting to message one.
It's just so put into message we want to output message 1 so it output that inner HVM El and this time
call it highlighted
so clicked highlighted save that go back and refresh it.
So let's see what happens.
So we see that we do get that clicked highlighted and we get that change so we're able to fire both
of those off and we're able to add different event listeners on the different classes and then we get
those triggered depending on when they get clicked.
So that was successful and you are able to do that and apply to different actions when the particular
element gets clicked by using the different class names.
So let's go ahead and try this out.
And remember before that one of the disadvantages to on klick was that we could only register one event.
So now we've tried to register two events go out to the page refreshed and try clicking one of the regular
elements we can see that all of those events are still working.
And as soon as we click three.
So an interesting thing happens when we click number three we actually get the last registered on click
event to that particular element.
So we don't get both of them.
We only get the once so we can't actually see.
Test me seven or test me three.
All we get is clicked highlighted and if we were to change the order that it actually gets represented
within our code.
So do you think that this will make a difference.
What do you think will happen now.
So let's refresh it and click three and click 7.
And now we see that once again we're only registering that one of them.
So whatever event is presented last within the order of the code then that's the one that actually going
to takes precedence when the element gets clicked.
So always keep that in mind and that when you're using on click you can only have one click event per
element.
So even though both of these are different and they're going by the classes you can only have one per